although viruses intend to package only
viral nucleic acid into the protein
capsid sometimes accidents occur and
some of the host DNA is transferred into
the protein capsid when this occurs the
viral particle then infects a second
cell with the DNA from the first host
cell and it is possible for a gene which
affects phenotype therefore to be
transferred from one bacterial cell to a
second bacterial cell this is called
transduction a genetic exchange between
two bacterial cells involving a virus as
a proxy the viral particle then carries
these host genes
in generalized transduction what occurs
is any region of the host chromosome is
accidentally packaged into the viral
capsid so when the virus causes the
breakdown of the host DNA some fragments
are accidentally packaged and this can
occur at any part of the host chromosome
with equal frequency this is known as
generalized transduction
when a virus inserts itself into the
host chromosome as a prophase it
occasionally occurs that the excision of
the virus the removal from the host
chromosome later occurs with an accident
where part of the host chromosome is
accidentally excised with the viral
nucleic acid in this case the host DNA
which is packaged into the viral
particle is not some random part of the
genome but rather the area next to the
viral insertion site so therefore it is
a specific area of the host chromosome
which would then be transformed
transferred during this transduction
event this is then known as specialized
transduction because it is the region of
the host chromosome adjacent to the
viral insertion site which is likely to
be transferred
you